we don't on Harvard possess the verbal
mastery of TS Eliot the groundbreaking
ingenuity of Bill Gates or the dashing
good looks of Bill Gates all we can be
certain that John Harvard possessed was
a 300 volume collection of books and in
a state worth at least seven hundred and
eighty pounds which is the amount he
donated to a newly established
Massachusetts College upon his death in
1638 that's it 780 pounds that's just
pocket change to those of you who have
absurdly overpaid jobs like corporate
consultant or Dean of the Office of
Student Life
but alas our university is named for the
English Minister John Harvard simply
because he donated his books and 780
pounds so what would john harvard's say
if he could come back to life today just
to see what his dying contribution has
done for his name Kroy gain he might say
if he were Australia in which he was not
but seriously imagine how it would feel
to learn that over nearly four centuries
your own name had become synonymous with
scholarly brilliance elite exclusivity
and what Webster's dictionary defines as
not getting any to find out that you had
become a global brand name like Johnson
& Johnson or blue ivy carter how would
one react to all this I am sure that
John Harvard would be honored to see his
name printed on the resumes and
sweatshirts of the world's most
promising geniuses after all we are all
geniuses each and every one of us was
valedictorian of our high school class
we all have an IQ of 300 billion we've
all achieved local glory in our hometown
newspapers right well getting accepted
to Harvard certainly landed me on the
front page of my hometown paper the New
York Times
John Harvard would also be excited that
the yard named for him has become an
international tourist destination why
wouldn't he be excited about that what's
not to love about all those tourists
take it from somebody who lived on the
first floor of Stoughton you don't even
need to set an alarm clock when you can
be awoken every day by a Korean family
taking photos of you sleeping but what
would john harvard's say about the more
controversial issues on campus would he
be embarrassed to see how the school
named for him was portrayed in films
like the social network and speaking of
the social network how confused John
Harvard might be to learn that his name
is associated with the world's most
popular stalking platform I can just
hear him asking what exactly is Facebook
how do I untag all these photos and who
is this luis martinez that keeps writing
on my wall
yet ultimately I think that John Harvard
would mainly feel a humble sense of
pride to be here today looking at the
promising young adults whose education
he endowed from a distance after all
John Harvard donated to this school so
he could contribute to others not to
boast his own achievements in fact he
didn't have many achievements to boast
by the time he left his historic
donation John Harvard was only 30 years
old how crazy is that the only thing I
can hope to donate by the time I turned
30 is sperm that's not even a joke it's
currently my only prospect for paying
rent next year
but you know at least I'm following my
dreams right I want us to consider
though how ironic it is that Harvard is
named for somebody who contributed more
than he achieved we are a student body
that seems singularly focused on
achieving things for ourselves and we
frequently use Harvard's name as a
benchmark for those personal
achievements and yet we Harvard students
so rarely make any effort to contribute
to others not even to purchase a paper
from the spare change News guy young
lady young man well hello young man
young lady nevertheless it is my
profound belief that we should not and
must not achieve without contributing we
already have followed John Harvard's
example through contributions we've made
to our campus our peers and our friends
and we will continue to follow his
example with contributions will make
long after tomorrow when we commence our
freshman year in the real world our
contributions don't have to be monetary
like John Harvard's was these
contributions might rather surface
through scientific breakthroughs
artistic creations humanitarian acts or
hilariously high-profile incidents of
plagiarism and identity fraud so within
the class of 2012 whose name will still
be remembered in 375 years from now when
tenured professors have been replaced by
robots and the shuttle does not take you
to the quad but rather to the moon
we're Harvard we'll need to build new
dorms because construction and Austin
will still be incomplete I hope that we
will continue to not only remember those
who achieved but those who contributed
so fellow classmates when you take your
final steps around this great yard
please take a moment to stop at the John
Harvard statue and before you unzip your
pants to pee on that thing one last time
say thank you John Harvard thank you
congratulations to the families and
graduates of the class of 2012